# Main Topics

SQLAlchemy is a powerful and widely used Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) 
library for Python. It provides a high-level API for interacting with 
databases and allows you to work with databases using Python objects and 
methods. 

To help you understand the most important aspects of SQLAlchemy, here are the 
key concepts and features that will cover around 80% of what you need to 
know: 

1. Installation: Start by installing SQLAlchemy using pip or your preferred 
package manager. 

2. Connecting to a Database: Use the `create_engine()` function to establish 
a connection to a database. Specify the database URL, which includes the 
dialect, driver, username, password, host, and database name. 

3. Defining Database Models: SQLAlchemy uses classes to represent database 
tables. Create a class for each table, typically inheriting from the `
declarative_base()` base class. Use class attributes to define table columns 
and relationships. 

4. Mapping Table Columns: Use `Column` objects to define the columns of a 
table within a model class. Specify the column type and any additional 
constraints. 

5. Creating Database Tables: After defining your models, call `
Base.metadata.create_all(engine)` to create the corresponding database 
tables. 

6. CRUD Operations: SQLAlchemy provides methods to perform CRUD operations (
Create, Read, Update, Delete) on the database. Use `session.add()`, `
session.query()`, `session.commit()`, and `session.delete()` to manipulate 
data. 

7. Querying Data: Use the query API to retrieve data from the database. You 
can apply filters, sorting, and limit the number of results using methods 
like `filter()`, `order_by()`, and `limit()`. 

8. Relationships: Define relationships between models using `relationship()` 
to establish connections between tables. SQLAlchemy supports one-to-one, one-
to-many, and many-to-many relationships. 

9. Joining Tables: Use the `join()` method to combine tables in a query and 
retrieve data from related tables. 

10. Transactions: Wrap database operations within a transaction using `
session.begin()`, `session.rollback()`, and `session.commit()`. This ensures 
data consistency and allows you to roll back changes if necessary. 

11. Updating Data: Use the `update()` method to modify existing data in the 
database. Specify the columns to be updated and provide new values. 

12. Deleting Data: Use the `delete()` method to remove data from the 
database. Specify the filters to identify the rows to be deleted. 

13. Filtering and Conditions: SQLAlchemy provides a rich set of filter 
operators such as `==`, `!=`, `like`, `in_`, `between`, etc., to create 
complex filtering conditions. 

14. Aggregates and Functions: Use SQLAlchemy's `func` object to perform 
aggregate functions (e.g., `count()`, `sum()`, `avg()`) and other database 
functions in your queries. 

15. Ordering and Sorting: Sort query results using the `order_by()` method. 
Specify the columns to sort by and the sorting order. 

16. Joins and Eager Loading: Use the `join()` method to combine tables in a 
query and retrieve data from related tables. SQLAlchemy also provides eager 
loading to minimize database queries when accessing related objects. 

17. Session Management: Use sessions to manage interactions with the 
database. A session acts as a transactional boundary for multiple operations, 
allowing you to commit or roll back changes as a unit. 

18. Transactions and Concurrency: Understand the concept of transactions and 
how they relate to concurrency. Handle concurrency issues by using proper 
transaction isolation levels and applying appropriate locking strategies. 

19. Database Migration: SQLAlchemy supports database migration tools like 
Alembic. Learn how to use Alembic to manage database schema changes and 
versioning. 

20. Performance Considerations: SQLAlchemy provides various optimization 
techniques such as eager loading, query batching, and caching. Understand 
these techniques to improve the performance of your applications.

