# Plan of Study

Learning SQLAlchemy can be a rewarding journey for someone with a good 
understanding of Python. To help you master SQLAlchemy, here's a step-by-step 
learning plan: 

1. **Python Fundamentals**: Ensure you have a strong grasp of Python basics, 
including variables, data types, control structures, functions, and classes. 
This foundation will be essential when working with SQLAlchemy. 

2. **Database Fundamentals**: Familiarize yourself with relational databases 
and concepts like tables, columns, relationships, primary keys, foreign keys, 
and SQL queries. Understanding the basics of databases will give you a solid 
context for using SQLAlchemy. 

3. **Install and Set Up SQLAlchemy**: Install SQLAlchemy using pip or your 
preferred package manager. Set up a database server (such as MySQL, 
PostgreSQL, or SQLite) locally or use an online service for practice. 

4. **SQLAlchemy Core**: Begin by learning SQLAlchemy Core, which is the lower-
level SQL toolkit of SQLAlchemy. Core provides direct control over SQL 
queries and allows you to build SQL expressions, execute statements, and 
handle results. Start with basic CRUD operations and gradually explore more 
advanced concepts like joins, filters, and transactions. 

5. **SQLAlchemy ORM**: Move on to SQLAlchemy's Object-Relational Mapping (
ORM) layer, which provides a high-level API for working with databases using 
Python objects. Learn how to define models, map them to database tables, and 
perform common operations like querying, inserting, updating, and deleting 
data. Understand relationships, eager loading, and how to handle complex 
queries with the ORM. 

6. **Advanced ORM Techniques**: Dive deeper into advanced ORM techniques like 
inheritance, polymorphic relationships, composite keys, and hybrid 
attributes. Explore techniques to optimize performance, such as query 
batching, caching, and lazy loading. 

7. **Database Migration**: Learn how to use SQLAlchemy in conjunction with a 
database migration tool like Alembic. Understand the process of managing 
database schema changes, versioning, and applying migrations. 

8. **Integration with Web Frameworks**: If you're interested in web 
development, explore integrating SQLAlchemy with popular Python web 
frameworks such as Flask or Django. Understand how to use SQLAlchemy to 
interact with the database within the context of web applications. 
